onferences

MLS will have 22 clubs for the league's 22nd season. The 2017 conference alignments are as follows:

Western Conference
	Colorado Rapids
	FC Dallas
	Houston Dynamo
	LA Galaxy
	Minnesota United FC
	Portland Timbers
	Real Salt Lake
	San Jose Earthquakes
	Seattle Sounders
	Sporting Kansas City
	Vancouver Whitecaps

Eastern Conference
	Atlanta United
	Chicago Fire
	Columbus Crew SC
	D.C. United
	Montreal Impact
	New England Revolution
	New York City FC
	New York Red Bulls
	Orlando City SC
	Philadelphia Union
	Toronto FC

Regular Season

Each of the 22 MLS clubs will play 34 games, 17 at home and 17 away.
Clubs will play each of their 10 conference opponents at least twice (one home, one away)
Clubs will play each team in the opposing conference at least once (5 or 6 home, 5 or 6 away) 
Clubs will play three additional intraconference matches with one team in each conference playing one extra non-conference match.
POINT SYSTEM: Teams will receive three points for a win, one point for a tie and zero points for a loss.
 
GAME DAY ROSTERS: Each team can select 18 players for a gameday roster. Teams are allowed three substitutions per game.
 
TEAM BENCHES
Both the Home Team and Visiting Team will be allowed a maximum of 17 individuals on their bench (nine staff, seven players, and one physician).  
If the Visiting Team has no Official Team Physician present, a maximum of 16 total individuals (nine staff and seven players) will be allowed on the bench. 
The Home Team will be required to have their Team Physician attend each MLS match and that individual will be seated on the Home Team bench.
All such individuals seated in the bench area must be listed on the Official Game Roster
Additional players or support staff may not sit or stand in the bench area or be on a secondary bench placed in, near or immediately behind the Technical Area.
Suspended players and/or coaches may not be in the bench area, locker room or on field level.    
GAME CLOCK: The official game time for all Major League Soccer games will be managed on the field by the referee. If necessary, the referee may also allot additional time (a.k.a. "stoppage time”) at the end of each period (first half, second half, and if applicable, first extra time period and second extra time period during playoff matches) to allow for injuries, time-wasting and/or other disturbances.
 
The stadium clock will display the time from 0:00 to 45:00 and from 45:00 to 90:00 (plus stoppage time where applicable in each half). For statistical purposes, the minutes for goals, substitutions, yellow cards, etc., will be listed from the first minute until the 90th minute. A goal scored at 15 minutes 10 seconds will be listed as having been scored in the 16th minute. Events occurring during stoppage time will follow the international norm by being marked with a "+" sign and the additional minutes. For example, a goal scored three minutes into first half stoppage time will be officially identified as happening at "45’ + 3’".
 
HYDRATION BREAKS: MLS mandates the use of hydration breaks if the WetBulb Globe Temperature measures 82 degrees or higher.
 
The fourth official will be responsible for reading the WetBulb Globe Temperature at the kickoff spot at the conclusion of pre-game warm ups and the conclusion of the first half. 
Implementation and control of the breaks will be managed solely by the referee
Each break will last up to three minutes in length and held approximately 30 minutes into each half (around the 30th and 75th minute respectively).
The ball must be out of play for the break to commence.
The clock will continue to run and all time allotted for the break will be added to stoppage time.
MATCH POSTPONEMENT: In the event a match is abandoned at any point prior to its conclusion, it will be postponed, rather than cancelled and/or final. In the event the game is abandoned at any point, any remaining time will be completed the following day or as soon as practical. 
 
CLICK HERE for the complete match postponement guidelines.
 
PLAYING FIELD DIMENSIONS AND MARKINGS:  The game will be played on a field that remains the same size throughout the League Regular and Post-Season, unless a change is approved by the League and the visiting club is notified at least 72 hours in advance of the game. The dimensions and markings of the field will conform to MLS standards and the Laws of the Game.  No logos on the field, goal nets or corner flags will be allowed without prior League, USSF, and CSA written approval.  
Except where stadium design deems it impossible or impractical, the playing field will be at a minimum 70 yards wide by 110 yards long.  
OFFICIATING AND DISCIPLINARY PROTOCOL

REFEREES: All referees in MLS are either USSF (United States Soccer Federation) or CSA (Canadian Soccer Association) National Referees.  Referees for all MLS games will be trained, assigned and evaluated by PRO (Professional Referee Organization).
 
REGULAR SEASON CAUTIONS AND SUSPENSIONS: Fines and suspensions will be levied against players for yellow card accumulations during the Regular Season as follows:
Player accrues five yellow cards: $250 fine and suspension from his next MLS Regular Season Game;
Player accrues an additional three yellow cards after having been fined and suspended for the initial five cards: $500 fine and suspension from his next MLS Regular Season Game;
Player accrues additional three yellow cards after having been fined and suspended for a second game: $750 fine and suspension from his next MLS Regular Season Game;
Player accrues additional two yellow cards after having been fined and suspended for a third game: $1000 fine and suspension from his next MLS Regular Season Game;
For each two yellow cards thereafter, Player will be fined $1000 and suspended from his next MLS Regular Season Game.
GOOD BEHAVIOR INCENTIVE: If a player appears in five consecutive matches without receiving a card or supplemental discipline, that player will have one caution removed from his cumulative yellow card total.  The Good Behavior Incentive can be applied a maximum of three times throughout the season.
(e.g. A player on his third caution of the season appears in five consecutive matches without receiving a card or supplemental discipline removes one caution from his cumulative total leaving the player with a total of two. This player now has two remaining Good Behavior Incentive opportunities for the 2017 Season.) 
 
BENCH BEHAVIOR POLICY: Fines and suspensions will be levied against coaches, technical staff members, and players who leave the bench area to egregiously protest (as determined by the Disciplinary Committee) an official’s decision or for dissent towards an official.
 
PLAYERS
During a game, players moving outside the bench area to protest an official’s decision will be asked to return to the bench area. Players committing an egregious act will be immediately dismissed for the remainder of the match and may receive supplemental discipline from the MLS Disciplinary Committee.
If a player leaves the bench area and enters the field of play to protest an official’s decision, his actions will be treated as an Entering the Field of Play incident. 
Unless deemed to be egregious by the Disciplinary Committee, players will be warned for their first violation and fined for any subsequent violations.
 
COACHES AND STAFF
During a game, coaches and staff moving outside the bench area to protest an official’s decision will be asked by the fourth official to return to the bench area.  The fourth official will implement an ‘ask-tell-dismiss’ policy, which consists of two warnings (ask and tell) before the coach or staff member is dismissed from the match.  
A coach or staff member in the bench area that commits an egregious act will be immediately dismissed by the official for the remainder of the match.

Coaches and staff members may receive supplemental discipline from the MLS Disciplinary Committee under the following circumstances:

Coaches and/or staff members that leave the bench area to protest an official’s decision.
When more than one coach leaves the bench to coach or issue instruction (note: goal celebrations, substitutions, and medical communication will be exempt from this policy).
MEDICAL STAFF 
Medical staff who are dismissed during a match will miss the remainder of that match and will be fined (rather than suspended) in their next match due to their role in player treatment and safety.  However, the League at its sole discretion, can suspend any member of the medical staff if warranted.
If a suspension occurs because the medical staff has been found guilty of Referee assault/abuse or an egregious act (as determined by the Disciplinary Committee), the medical staff member will not participate in any match day related activities (i.e., player care) and is prohibited from entering stadium tunnel area, locker rooms or field level at any time on match day.
 
ENTERING THE FIELD OF PLAY: Bench personnel, including players, are prohibited from entering the field of play at any time (excluding medical staff needed to tend to an injury). 
 
Non-confrontational Incidents – Any bench personnel adjudged to have entered the field during a non-confrontational incident (as determined by the Disciplinary Committee) will be fined (rather than suspended).
The Disciplinary Committee will have the authority to impose a suspension(s) and/or fine for any non-confrontational incident it deems to be egregious and/or repeat behavior of an individual.
Unless in case of egregious incident, individuals will be issued a written warning for their first non-confrontational offense and will be fined for all subsequent violations of the policy.
Confrontational Incidents – Any bench personnel adjudged to have entered the field during a confrontational incident (as determined by the Disciplinary Committee) will be suspended and fined.  
 
GAME SUSPENSION MANIPULATION: Players suspended from MLS Regular Season and Playoffs games that are called in for National Team duty will have their suspension(s) held in abeyance until they return from the full completion of their international duty.

DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE: The Disciplinary Committee, comprised of three former MLS players, one former MLS coach and one former MLS referee, will have the authority to act in following instances:
1.    Where the referee sees an incident and issues a red card, the Committee may review the play for further disciplinary action, over and above the mandatory suspension and fine. 
2.    Where the referee does not see the incident (e.g., an off-the-ball offense) and therefore does not have the opportunity to act, the Committee will review any and all evidence and may act to discipline a player.
3.    Where the referee sees an incident and either does not act, or rules only a foul or only a yellow card (i.e., anything other than a red card), the Committee will not in general issue a suspension, unless:
The play in question is, in the unanimous opinion of the Committee from all available video evidence, a clear and unequivocal red card; AND
The play in question is, in the unanimous opinion of the Committee, of an egregious or reckless nature, such that the Committee must act to protect player safety or the integrity of the game.
The Committee will automatically review any incident that forces a player to be immediately substituted out of the game due to an injury through contact with an opponent. Additional information about the Disciplinary Committee procedures are available by CLICKING HERE. 
AUDI 2017 MLS CUP PLAYOFFS

QUALIFICATION: Twelve teams, the top six from each conference at the end of the regular season, qualify for the Audi 2017 MLS Cup Playoffs.
 
TEAM-STANDINGS TIE-BREAKING PROCEDURES: The team awarded the highest position in the MLS standings will be the team with the greatest number of points (three points for a win, one point for a tie, zero points for a loss).  In the event that two teams finish the regular season with an equal number of points, the following system will be used to break the tie:
Total number of wins
Goal Differential (GD)
Goals For (GF)
Fewest Disciplinary Points*
Away Goals Differential
Away Goal For
Home Goals Differential
Home Goal For
Coin Toss (tie of 2 clubs) or Drawing of Lots (tie of 3 or more clubs)
When two or more teams are tied in the standings on points, the above tiebreakers will be used until one team ranks ahead of the other(s).
* Disciplinary Points are calculated as follows:
a. Foul = 1 point
b. Yellow Card = 3 Points
c. 2nd Yellow Card = 3 Points
d. Straight Red Card = 7 Points
e. Coach Dismissal = 7 Points
f. Any Supplemental Discipline = 8 points
